


2.1.1.3-three areas of router security(allam)  
---intro: Router security, however, involves protecting the network itself by hardening or securing the routers.  
Specifically, it addresses preventing attackers from using it to gain information about your network.  
-----physical security:it is involves more than just controlling physical access to the room or to the equipment rack in which the router resides  
--Example,room must be free of electrostatic or magnetic interference.  
-----router hardening:it is securing administrative access disabling unused ports and interfaces  
--Example,using security and device manager(SDM)  
-----operating system security:involves operating systems handle many kinds of activities from user programs to system programs like printer spooler, name servers, file server, etc  
--antivirus firewall


2.1.1.2  
Edge router Security Approaches  
1) Single Router Approach  
-a single router connects the protected network or internal local area network (LAN), to the Internet  
- All security policies are configured on this device  
2) Defense-in-Depth Approach  
- there are three primary layers of defense: the edge router, the firewall, and an internal router that connects to the protected LAN.  
- The edge router acts as the first line of defense and is known as a screening router.  
- The firewall will perform additional filtering.  
3) DMZ approach  
- DMZ can be used for servers that must be accessible from the internet or some other external network  
- can be set up between two routers

2.1.2.1 STRONG PASSWORD  
-Attackers can use various methods or tools to crack someone password  
-Admin should ensure that strong password been configured accross the network  
-Use blank space or passphrase rather than complex password to create a strong and easy to remember password.  

  

Strong password guideline  
1.Use a password length of 10 or more  
characters.  
2. Include a mix of uppercase and lowercase  
letters, numbers, symbols, and spaces.  
3.Avoid passwords based on easily identifiable pieces of information.  
4.Deliberately misspell a password.  
5.Change passwords often.  
6.Do not write passwords down and leave them in obvious places

  

----  
2.1.2.2 INCREASING ACCESS SECURITY  
In router,  
1.To increase the min length use security passwords min-length  
2. Exception of the password that use enable secret command, all password is in plaintext  
3. To encrypt all plaintext password use service password-encryption.  
4. To limit execute time , use exec-timeout command

  

Disable the EXEC process for a specific line, such as on the aux port,  
using the no exec command in line configuration mode. - to make sure only outgoing  
connection on the line

Secret Password Algorithm

1. MD5 hashes are no longer considered secure because attackers can reconstruct valid certificates allow attackers spoof any website.

2.it is Recommended to configure all secret passwords using either type 8 or type 9 passwords use SHA encryption

3. configuring type 9 encryption is not as easy that we cannot simply enter enable secret 9 and the unencrypted password. So, to use the form of the command, we need to paste in the encrypted password, which can be copied from another router configuration. To enter an unencrypted password, use the enable algorithm-type command syntax.

-------

Securing Line Access

By default, there are no password for administrative access for the console and auxiliary ports. Only type 7 being use for the password command configured on the console, vty, and auxiliary lines so you should configure the console and auxiliary lines for username/password authentication with the login local command.


**2.1.3.1 Enhancing the Login Process**
 - Assigning passwords and local authentication does not prevent a device from being targeted for attack
 - Cisco IOS Login Security Enhancements
	 - Provide more security by slowing down attacks such as dictionary attacks and DoS attacks
	 1) Generate system-login messages for login detections
	 2) Delays between login attempts
	 3) Enable shutdown if DoS attacks are suspected
- ACL to permit specific and legitimate addresses of known system admin
 - Activate banner to protect organization from legal perspective
	 - banner should not use welcoming words as users may be misunderstand to use the network.


**2.1.3.2 Configuring login enhancement features**  
- **login block-for** command can defend against DoS attacks by disabling logins after a specified number of failed login attempts.
- The **login quiet-mode** command maps to an ACL that identifies the permitted hosts. This ensures that only authorized hosts can attempt to login to the router.
- The **login delay** command specifies a number of seconds the user must wait between unsuccessful login attempts.
- The **login on-success** and **login on-failure** commands log successful and unsuccessful login attempts.


Modifying the SSH Configuration  
1. use ip ssh command to verify optional SSH command settings  
2. use ip ssh time out command to modify defaults timeout interval and configure number of seconds  
3. EXEC session starts after authentication and standard exec-time out configured  
4. User has 3 attempts to logging in the correct password  
5. use ip ssh authentication-retries to configure different number of consecutive SSH retries  
6. use syntax checker to enable SSH on router


Superview
-   A single CLI view can be shared within multiple superviews.
-   Commands cannot be configured for a superview. An administrator must add commands to the CLI view and add that CLI view to the superview.
-   Users who are logged into a superview can access all the commands that are configured for any of the CLI views that are part of the superview.
-   Each superview has a password that is used to switch between superviews or from a CLI view to a superview.
-   Deleting a superview does not delete the associated CLI views. The CLI views remain available to be assigned to another superview.


[2.2.2.3](http://2.2.2.3/ "http://2.2.2.3/") - Configuring Role Based Views  
  
First, need to enable AAA using aaa new-model command before admin create a view.  
  
Second, admin must login root view using enable view privileged to configure and edit views.  
  
Third, use enable view root and enter enable secret password when promoted.  
  
5 steps to create and manage specific view:  
  
1) Enable AAA with the aaa new-model global configuration mode command.  
2) Create a view using the parser view view-name global configuration mode command.  
3) Assign a secret password to the view using the secret encrypted-password view configuration mode command.  
4) Assign commands to the selected view using the commands parser-mode command in view configuration mode.  
5) Exit view configuration mode by typing the exit command